U.S. Base Seen as Monument to Futility as Afghans Watch Kunduz Fall
An American base in Kunduz has become a refuge for hundreds of Afghan soldiers and civilians besieged by the Taliban forces that now control the city.
New Rule Could Aid Veterans’ Access to Health Care for Some Traumatic Injuries
The new policy, which takes effect on Jan. 16, could pave the way for thousands of veterans to file 
Vietnam Legacy: Finding G.I. Fathers, and Children Left Behind
For veterans longing to salve the scars of an old war and their half-Vietnamese children wanting to know their roots, the need to find one another has become more urgent than ever.
Inquiry Finds Inadequate Staffing at Mississippi Veterans Hospital
Problems at a Jackson, Miss., unit will be among the topics discussed at a special field hearing of the House Committee on Veterans’ Affairs in Pittsburgh on Monday.
To Reach Out, Befriend and Kill When Necessary: An Ever Trickier Terrain
“The Tender Soldier,” by the journalist Vanessa M. Gezari, examines the military’s “Human Terrain” teams, which operate as quasi-social scientists in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Deployment Factors Are Not Related to Rise in Military Suicides, Study Finds
A study found that the forces underlying the jump in military suicides were similar to those in the civilian world: mental illness, substance abuse, and financial and relationship problems.
Even for Fastest Riders, New Doping Questions Are Never Far Behind
Cycling’s loss of credibility has made it impossible for riders to satisfactorily answer questions about performance enhancing drugs.
Froome Says His Tour Victory ‘Will Stand the Test of Time’
Chris Froome, who finished second to his teammate Bradley Wiggins last year, crossed the line first in Paris, becoming Britain’s second winner in cycling’s premier race.
Froome Is One Stage Away From Tour Victory
The British cyclist Chris Froome maintained a commanding lead Saturday, all but assuring he will win the 100th Tour de France when it finishes in Paris on Sunday.
For Tour Fans and Riders, All of France Is a Stadium
By the side of the road, on mountains and flats, the excitement runs high and riders say they draw energy from the antics of the spectators, particularly on long, demoralizing climbs.
Up, Down and Back Up Again for Victory
The French cyclist Christophe Riblon appeared to be in disbelief as he won Stage 18 of the Tour de France on Thursday, and Christopher Froome held on to the overall lead.
Watchdogs Seek Doping Clues From a Distance
A group of activists is scrutinizing the Tour de France for hints of doping by comparing current performances with past ones. But the fairness of their methods has been questioned.
What Goes Up at the Tour Descends Dangerously Fast
Alberto Contador lost control on a descent at the Tour de France on Tuesday, forcing Chris Froome off the road, but a descent on Thursday promises to be even more treacherous.
Froome Holds Lead After Harrowing Descent
Rui Costa, a Portuguese rider, won the 16th stage of the Tour de France on Tuesday as Chris Froome held on to the yellow jersey.
Froome Reasserts His Dominance in Tour De France
With a burst of power on the steep final slopes of the imposing Mont Ventoux, Chris Froome sprinted away from a young climbing sensation and gained more than a minute and a half on his two closest rivals.
Air Force General Takes Over Vastly Expanded Sexual Assault Office
Maj. Gen. Margaret H. Woodward will encourage more airmen and women to not only report sexual assault but also pursue prosecution.
Toiling in Anonymity, Lead-Out Riders Blaze the Paths for Sprinters
On Saturday, the support men had their day in the sun. Matteo Trentin, who usually works for Cavendish on the Omega Pharma-Quick Step team, won Stage 14.
Cavendish Puts Things Right With a Stage Victory
British cyclist Mark Cavendish, who had lost two straight sprint finishes in the Tour de France, took the sprint in resounding fashion on Friday, beating one of his biggest rivals.
Taking On Rules to Ease Sikhs’ Path to the Army
A doctor who earned a Bronze Star in Afghanistan got a special exception to wear a beard and turban, and he is working to make it easier for other Sikhs to enlist.
Riders to Watch at the Tour de France
Chris Froome of Britain and Alberto Contador of Spain are among the top riders in this year’s Tour de France.
Froome Leads Next Generation of Tour de France Contenders
Chris Froome leads a group of young riders looking to break out at the Tour de France, but the veteran Alberto Contador will be among those giving chase.
In Debate Over Military Sexual Assault, Men Are Overlooked Victims
In its latest report on sexual assault, the Pentagon estimated that 53 percent involved attacks on men, mostly by other men.
Researchers Find Biological Evidence of Gulf War Illnesses
New findings are bolstering the view that mysterious symptoms in Persian Gulf war veterans are fundamentally biological in nature, as opposed to psychological, the result of combat stress.
Soldier Is Expected to Plead Guilty in Afghan Massacre
Staff Sgt. Robert Bales, charged with killing 16 civilians, will avoid the death penalty if military prosecutors agree to the plea, his lawyer said.
Last Inspection: Precise Ritual of Dressing Nation’s War Dead
At the Dover Port Mortuary, where the bodies of service members are brought to be prepared for funeral, no detail is too small, whether the coffin is closed or the body slated for cremation.
Criticism of Veterans Affairs Secretary Mounts Over Backlog in Claims
The secretary, Eric Shinseki, is being held accountable for his overwhelmed agency’s problems dealing with claims for disability compensation.
Baffling Rise in Suicides Plagues the U.S. Military
Of the crises facing American troops today, suicide ranks among the most emotionally wrenching — and confounding.
In Calculation of Military Rates, the Numbers Are Not All Straightforward
The military population is fluid. Service members join and leave constantly, and National Guard and reserve troops flow on and off active-duty rosters.
Assault-Prevention Officer in Air Force Is Arrested
Lt. Col. Jeffrey Krusinski, the officer in charge of sexual assault prevention programs for the Air Force, was arrested early Sunday and charged with sexual battery, the police said.
N.R.A. Leadership Rallies Members for 2014 Elections
Wayne LaPierre, the public face of the National Rifle Association, implored members never to give up their weapons in the wake of recent gun control efforts.
V.A. Aims to Reduce Its Backlog of Claims
Veterans Affairs said that it would issue provisional rulings on 250,000 disability claims one year or older, a move that would allow those approved to receive benefits immediately.
War and Sports Shape Better Artificial Limbs
John Kremer, a Navy explosives expert, lost both his legs below the knee after stepping on a mine in Afghanistan in 2010. In his San Diego hospital bed, he assumed he would be chained to a wheelchair for a year or more. Walking seemed a distant goal. Running? He could barely comprehend the concept anymore. But with the encouragement of therapists at the Naval Medical Center, Mr. Kremer was walking in two months, running in five and skydiving after nine. He did his first 10-kilometer race, about six miles, one year after stepping on the mine. Today he runs, swims or bikes almost daily and competes for the Navy’s wounded warrior team in swimming, shooting, seated volleyball and wheelchair basketball.
War and Sports Shape Better Artificial Limbs
There are now specialized prosthetics with computerized knees and ankles that adjust to terrain and activity.
Veterans’ Programs Are Set for Raise in Spending Plan
Facing a persistent backlog of disability claims, and criticism, the Obama administration says its next budget will include significant increases for veterans programs.
Veterans Affairs Officials Offer Reassurance About Troubled Hospital
The medical center in Jackson, Miss., came under scrutiny after whistle-blowers complained about years of mismanagement, including understaffing and misdiagnoses.
From Combat, Compassion
An ambitious exhibition on images of war and its aftermath captures a complex set of emotions, from sorrow and grief to compassion and even joy.
Women (and Men) Face Big Hurdles in Training for Marine Infantry Units
A training course in Quantico, Va., was the most recent test of the goal of placing women in the toughest combat roles.
Fixing the Failed Elevator Pitch: Translating Military Skills for Civilian Employers
A program by the U.S. Chamber of Commerce unveils a resume-building website intended to help young veterans translate their military experiences for civilian employers.
A Pattern of Problems at a Hospital for Veterans
A special counsel’s letter to the White House detailed complaints on missed diagnoses, poor sterilization and understaffing at a Department of Veterans Affairs medical center in Jackson, Miss.
As Marines Exit Afghan Province, a Feeling That a Campaign Was Worth It
In Helmand Province, the number of violent events, from gunshots to roadside bombs, has dropped in almost every district since 2010, Marine commanders say.
Drone Pilots Are Found to Get Stress Disorders Much as Those in Combat Do
A study has shown that pilots of drone aircraft experience mental health problems much like those of pilots who are deployed to war. 
General Allen's Tenure in Afghanistan
Gen. John R. Allen has had more than his share of crises, including a video of Marines urinating on Taliban corpses; the burning of Korans by American soldiers; civilian deaths in allied airstrikes; the massacre of 16 civilians, in which an American soldier has been charged; and a spate of insider attacks by Afghan forces on NATO troops.
In Arduous Officer Course, Women Offer Clues to Their Future in Infantry
The Marine Corps is assessing female volunteers in a grueling training course to see whether women can make it in the infantry.
Study Seeks Biomarkers for Invisible War Scars
The goal of a five-year study, based at New York University’s medical school, is to find reliable, objective evidence of “invisible injuries” of war.
As Suicides Rise in U.S., Veterans Are Less of Total
The convergence reflects the fact that suicide numbers are rising slightly among both veterans and everyone else, but has increased more in the general population.
A Million Strong: Helping Them Through
With more than $10 billion being spent this year educating troops and veterans, the order has been given: help them graduate. But how?
When the Bullets Flew, ‘They Didn’t Care That I Was a Woman’
Although women have routinely shown bravery under fire, the question facing the Pentagon is whether they can perform ground combat tasks day in and day out.
Wal-Mart Plans to Hire Any Veteran Who Wants a Job
In one of the largest hiring commitments for veterans in history, the company expects to employ 100,000 people.
A Soldier’s Requiem, Never Fading Away
Jackie Finken and her daughters have gone through different phases of mourning for their lost husband and father. But they are all determined to remember, without letting memory become a millstone.
Pentagon Agrees to Full Discharge Pay for Gay Troops
Under a settlement to a class-action lawsuit, the Pentagon has agreed to pay full separation pay to all service members involuntarily separated from the military after Nov. 10, 2004, because of their sexual orientation.
How Defense Act Addresses Military Suicides and Issues of Conscience
More than a spending bill, the National Defense Authorization Act of 2013 also includes provisions dealing with military suicides and the accommodation of the conscience, moral principles or religious beliefs of service members.
A Library Joins a Drive for Veterans' Success
The Single Stop Veterans Initiative, a collaboration by three groups, helps veterans reintegrate into civilian life with counselors at the Mid-Manhattan Library and six other locations around New York City.
North Carolina: Brigadier General Faces Court-Martial
Brig. Gen. Jeffrey A. Sinclair, a former deputy commanding general for the 82nd Airborne Division, will face a court-martial early next year on sexual misconduct charges.
Used to Helping, a Chaplain Finds the Tables Turned
For Lt. Col. Richard Brunk, a former Army chaplain, two instances of traumatic brain injury from blasts in Iraq have tugged away at a mask of good cheer.
Paper Links Nerve Agents in ’91 Gulf War and Ailments
A new scientific paper suggests that American troops staged in Saudi Arabia were exposed to nerve agents released by the bombing of Iraqi chemical weapons depots during the Persian Gulf War.
Rules Eased for Veterans’ Brain Injury Benefits
The Department of Veterans Affairs will propose new regulations to make it easier for veterans to receive treatment for illnesses linked to traumatic brain injury.
Vietnam Veterans, Discharged Under Cloud, File Suit Saying Trauma Was Cause
A suit against the armed forces argues that many Vietnam veterans had post-traumatic stress disorder when they were issued other-than-honorable discharges.
Servicewomen File Suit Over Direct Combat Ban
Four military servicewomen, who all served tours in Afghanistan or Iraq, filed a federal lawsuit seeking to end the Pentagon’s ban on women serving in direct combat jobs.
Learning to Accept, and Master, a $110,000 Mechanical Arm
War veterans who have lost their upper limbs have found that replicating their complex actions with robotic arms can be excruciatingly difficult.
A Case That Could Unhinge a Veterans Benefits 'Hamster Wheel'
Lawyers for an 80-year-old widow of a veteran are asking the United States Supreme Court to empower the Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims to issue fewer remands and simply issue final decisions on its own.
Medical History Should Include Military History, Doctor Says
In an essay, a doctor who served in the Army in Vietnam suggests that the American medical system begin asking adult patients whether they are veterans, because their military experience could have had profound effects on their health many years later.
Hundreds of Veterans Help Sandy Victims and Each Other
For the past week, hundreds of military veterans from across the nation have flocked to Far Rockaway, summoned by a beacon from Team Rubicon, a nonprofit created by veterans to help other veterans through a therapy known as disaster relief.
Study Finds Amputating Damaged Limbs Improves Quality of Life
For some time, there has been anecdotal evidence that troops who had severe nerve, muscle or bone damage to an arm or leg were better off undergoing amputations rather than trying to keep the limb. Now there is hard data that seems to confirm that suspicion.
In Veterans’ Aid, Growth Pains
Since 2001, more than 7,800 nonprofit groups have registered with the federal government to care for troops, veterans and their families.
Marine Corps Starts Ad Campaign to Try to Diversify Officer Ranks
Recognizing that it lags the other branches of the military in female and minority officers, the Marines have started an effort to diversify.
An Almost-Sure Winner: The Ranks of House Service Veterans
Regardless of what happens in the presidential election on Tuesday, more veterans are likely to be elected to the House of Representatives.
As Military Suicides Rise, Focus Is on Private Weapons
The Pentagon and Congress are working on policies to separate at-risk service members from personal weapons, but gun-rights advocates and many veterans are opposed.
Veterans Wait for Benefits as Claims Pile Up
A crushing inventory of claims for disability, pension and educational benefits has overwhelmed the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Pinning Hopes on a Digital Fix for Veterans’ Claims
A new technology based on digitized records may help speed the processing of veterans’ disability claims.
Double Payments Bedevil Veterans’ Pension System
Technology and practices at the Department of Veterans Affairs that make it hard for some people to collect benefits apparently also result in overpayments.
Report Faults Military's Strategies on Drug and Alcohol Abuse
Despite a well-documented increase in the abuse of alcohol and prescription medications among military personnel over the past decade, the Defense Department’s strategies for screening, treating and preventing remains behind the times, a major new report finds.
Account Says Navy Author Wrote Book After a Slight
A new e-book says that Matt Bissonnette, a former Navy SEALs member who wrote a first-person account of the Osama bin Laden raid, was willing to speak out because of “bad blood” with his unit.
'Afghanistan' Not Among Buzzwords at G.O.P. Convention
On Thursday, when Mitt Romney accepted the nomination, the only person to mention the Afghan war was Clint Eastwood, who failed to sync with Mr. Romney’s own remarks on the American withdrawal.
An Effort Aims to Use Biomarkers to Pinpoint PTSD
A consortium is seeking federal financing to begin a major project to develop a more objective system for diagnosing post-traumatic stress disorder.


Aurora Gunman's Arsenal: Shotgun, Semiautomatic Rifle and, at the End, a Pistol
The three types of weapons used by the man accused of killing 12 people in a Colorado movie theater -- a semiautomatic variation of the military's M-16 rifle, a pump-action 12-gauge shotgun and at least one .40-caliber semiautomatic pistol -- are among the most popular guns available in the multibillion-dollar American firearms market. The weapons have become so common that a growing sport among gun enthusiasts is the ''three-gun competition,'' in which sharpshooters use a version of each of the weapons as they move from target set to target set, firing and reloading as rapidly as possible.
Aurora Gunman’s Arsenal: Shotgun, Semiautomatic Rifle and, at the End, a Pistol
The weapons used by the man accused of killing 12 people in a Colorado movie theater are among the most popular guns available in the multibillion-dollar American firearms market.
Instructor for Air Force Is Convicted in Sex Assaults
A military jury at Lackland Air Force Base found Staff Sgt. Luis Walker guilty on 28 counts in a case that has rocked the Air Force’s basic training system.
For Wounded Vets, a Pedal Through Manhattan
Nearly 30 injured veterans and active-duty service members pedaled through New York City on Thursday as part of the Wounded Warrior Project’s latest Soldier Ride.
Symptoms of Traumatic Brain Injury Can Persist for Years
A new study out of the University of Oklahoma suggests that the symptoms of combat-related traumatic brain injury can last for years, without decreasing in intensity.
Review Urges Defense Dept. To Broaden P.T.S.D. Help
In the first comprehensive review of the government's programs for treating post-traumatic stress disorder in service members and veterans, a panel of experts recommended on Friday that the Defense Department and the Department of Veterans Affairs expand access to services, particularly for people in rural areas, in the National Guard or Reserves, or in combat zones. The report, by the Institute of Medicine, also concluded that the two departments need to improve their assessment of how well their many treatment programs work, as well as find better ways of coordinating care that can begin overseas and then continue on bases or in small towns across the country.
Study Calls for Better Assessment of Government P.T.S.D. Programs
A comprehensive review of the government’s programs for treating post-traumatic stress disorder in service members and veterans recommends expanded services and even more personnel.
Veterans Affairs Chief Criticized Over What Some See as His Low Profile
Is Eric K. Shinseki, the secretary of the Veterans Affairs Department, too cloistered from the public and the press, and perhaps even from younger veterans?
Agency Confronts Hurdles in Helping Veterans Match Military Skills to Civilian Jobs
The Department of Veterans Affairs, recognizing the problem, has started a series of hiring fairs.
Database of Veterans' Medals Cited as Alternative to 'Stolen Valor'
Justice Anthony Kennedy said a “database of medal winners” could offer an alternative solution to the Stolen Valor Act, perhaps a reference to the work of Doug Sterner, a Vietnam veteran who for more than a decade has been painstakingly logging military award citations into a public database.
Lying About Earning War Medals Is Protected Speech, Justices Rule
The justices said that a federal law making it a crime to lie about having earned a military decoration was an unconstitutional infringement on free speech.
Backlog of Disability Claims for Veterans Sends Democrat on a Tear
During a House Veterans Affairs Committee hearing on the ever-growing backlog of disability compensation claims Tuesday, one lawmaker turned a normally staid policy meeting into a contentious affair.
Workers Point Finger at Their Own Agency Amid a Backlog in Veterans’ Benefits
The backlog in the disability compensation system at the Veterans Benefits Administration has prompted some workers to go public about the dysfunction within their own bureaucracy.
Group Planning Centers to Treat Combat Trauma
The private Intrepid Fallen Heroes Fund will construct facilities to improve treatment of brain injuries and psychological disorders.
Out of War, a Symphony
War has been a powerful muse to composers from Beethoven to Copland to Glass. Now comes a trio of American artists who hope to create a major classical composition about war, based on the experiences of American troops in Iraq and Afghanistan.
Veterans Pension Program Is Being Abused, Report Says
A yearlong investigation into a federal pension program for low-income veterans has concluded that weak oversight and unclear rules have made the system ripe for abuse, including by financial planners and lawyers who help well-off retirees qualify for benefits by transferring or hiding assets. The report by the Government Accountability Office, to be released on Wednesday, found that more than 200 firms had sprouted up across the country to help veterans ''restructure'' assets so they can appear indigent and therefore eligible for tax-free pensions, which can pay more than $20,000 a year.
Veterans Pension Program Is Being Abused, Report Says
Financial planners and lawyers have helped well-off retirees qualify for benefits by transferring or hiding assets, the Government Accountability Office has found.
Charges Amended for Soldier Accused in Civilian Deaths
The Army reduced the murder count by one, to 16, and added charges of illegal steroid use and alcohol consumption against the soldier, Staff Sgt. Robert Bales, accused of killing Afghan civilians.
Learning to Heal, One Memorial Day at a Time
Every year for the last four years, the men of the Second Battalion, Fourth Marine Regiment, which fought in Iraq, have visited the grave of a fallen comrade.
Remembering the Crew of a Lost Chinook
Alex Quade, a freelance television reporter, pays a Memorial Day tribute to the soldiers she was embedded with, and nearly died with, five years ago.
In Beer and Brotherhood, Marines Remember
PFLUGERVILLE, Tex. -- They had no plan, really, just memories. So after a few moments of awkward indecision, the young men ambled single file up to a simple gravestone to pay their respects. Each left behind a red or pale yellow rose, a mumbled word or a salty tear. Lance Cpl. Nickalous N. Aldrich, the stone read. Born Aug. 12, 1983, in Austin. Died Aug. 27, 2004, in Iraq. A single Marine in dress uniform, sweating under the gauzy sun, raised his sword to his nose and said a silent prayer. Then, as everyone else turned to leave, another Marine wearing cargo shorts and a T-shirt poured the last of his Budweiser onto the grass, crushed the can and laid it beside the flowers.
Government Report Says Medical Discharge Process Is Getting Slower
The Government Accountability Office reports that a joint medical evaluation system created to expedite the medical discharge process is actually increasing processing time–the latest bad news about long delays in medical evaluations and disability ratings by the Departments of Defense and Veterans Affairs.
Female Sergeant Major Claims Gender Discrimination
A retired command sergeant major has come forward to say that she was the victim of gender discrimination by her superiors while she was commandant of the 3rd Infantry Division.
Army to Review Its Handling of Psychiatric Evaluations
Congress put pressure on the military after hearing complaints about reversed diagnoses of post-traumatic stress disorder.
Brain Ailments in Veterans Likened to Those in Athletes
The same degenerative brain disease found in football players and boxers has been found in veterans exposed to roadside bombs, a finding with potentially profound implications.
Secretary of Veterans Affairs Sides With Veteran in DOMA Case
The Department of Veterans Affairs said it would not defend the constitutionality of two federal laws that define marriage as between a man and a woman.
Once Hailed as Army Pioneer, Now Battling to Stay on the Job
Command Sgt. Maj. Teresa L. King, recently reinstated as head of an elite drill sergeant school, says her male supervisors tried to undermine her authority because she is a woman.
Once Hailed as Army Pioneer, Now Battling to Stay on the Job
COLUMBIA, S.C. -- When Command Sgt. Maj. Teresa L. King was named the first female commandant of the Army's elite drill sergeant school in 2009, proponents of gender equality in the military hailed the news as a watershed. But it did not take long for the grumbling to start. Students who flunked out of the school complained that she set unfair standards. Some of her own instructors said she rigidly enforced old-fashioned rules. Traditionalists across the service asked: how could a woman with no experience in combat manage the Army's only school for training the trainers who prepare recruits for war?
In Military Courts, Considering Alternative Punishment for Troubled Service Members
A military lawyer argues in a law review article that the military needs to consider alternative sentencing programs for service members with combat-related problems.
Head of Drill Sergeant School Reinstated
A command sergeant major is vindicated after being suspended under a cloud
Loyal Companion Helps a Veteran Regain Her Life After War Trauma
Tori Stitt is among a growing group of war veterans finding that service dogs can offer relief from some of the effects of post-traumatic stress disorder.
At Parris Island, Basic Training Pulls Lessons From Marines' Real-World Lapses
Marine drill instructors at Parris Island incorporate real-world experiences, including mistakes, into ethics lessons for recruits, known as “value-based training.”
Efforts Undo Budget Cuts Set for Air National Guard
In combat zones, National Guard units generally take their orders from active duty commanders. Not so in Washington. For two months, the Air National Guard, with the help of governors from every state, has been battling the active duty Air Force over proposed budget cuts that would have trimmed the Guard's force by more than 5,000 people and more than 200 aircraft.
Battling Over Budget Cuts
The brief truce between the Air Force and the Air National Guard over proposed budget cuts may already be unraveling in the Senate.
Marines Moving Women Toward the Front Lines
The Marine Corps is bringing women into units that had been male-only, starting with its infantry officer school at Quantico, Va., and some ground combat battalions.
Insurer Details Higher Risks for Drivers After Deployment
A new study by USAA finds that troops are responsible for more automobile accidents after returning from Iraq and Afghanistan.
Air National Guard Lobbies Successfully Against Budget Cuts
Using a new ally in the Council of Governors, the National Guard unit got Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta to revise his proposed budget, reducing cuts in personnel and aircraft.
Many Veterans Face Long Wait for Mental Health Evaluations, Report Finds
A new report from the inspector general for the Department of Veterans Affairs says the department takes longer to evaluate first-time mental health patients than it has been willing to admit.

