On My Honor

Why the American Values of the Boy Scouts Are Worth Fighting For

Dedication

To my son Griffin, who persevered in the pursuit of his Eagle in the midst of many distractions common to a young man; my daughter Sydney, who inspires me to appeal to the better angels inside us all; and to my wife Anita, who is eternally patient with all my hobbies but especially supportive of all the time I have dedicated to a more vibrant Scouting movement.
All author profits from this book are dedicated to the Boy Scouts of America, Legal Defense. They continue to be under attack from the forces of secularism, and they can use every bit of financial assistance available from a sympathetic public.

The Road from Paint Creek
Two Sides of a Coin: Scouting and Public Service
Lunch with Some Old Scouts
Scouting: How It Began, How It Works
The Culture War Comes to Scouting
Pressure and Intimidation vs. the First Amendment
Individualism Run Amok
Is Scouting Relevant Today
Scouting Heroes: Values in Action
Scouting in a Changing World
Taking Inventory of Society
The Road Ahead: Can Scouting Survive?

Acknowledgments

My thanks go to several men who were my companions in Scouting or good Scouting comrades as adults. They are Dr. Russell Dressen; Dr. Mike Overton and Waller Overton, sons of Gene Overton, my scoutmaster; Riley Couch and Bill Andrews. They gave generously of their time to share memories of our Scouting days together and gave their views of the efforts of the ACLU and others to force Scouting to change its values.
I asked several men of accomplishment in their fields for their thoughts on Scouting and where it is heading. All were Eagle Scouts, including: U.S. Secretary of Defense Robert Gates; Dr. Gordon Gee, now president of Ohio State University and recent chancellor of Vanderbilt University; Astronaut James Lovell; and former FBI Director William Sessions. They made time for me to interview them, and I greatly appreciate their willingness to do so.
Teresa Hartnett, my literary agent, gave valuable advice about the organization of the book and arranged for its publication. My editors at Stroud & Hall made many good suggestions.
Several senior staff members at the Boy Scouts of America provided historical and organizational information, including David Parks, General Council; Connie Adams, Manager, Records Management; George Trosko, Director of the Boy Scout Division; and Stephen Mendlicott, Director of the Marketing & Communications Division.
George Davidson of Hughes Hubbard & Reed, LLP, the BSA’s outside legal counsel, was helpful in supplying information about the lawsuits in which the Boy Scouts of America has been involved in its fight to maintain its values and criteria. Mindy Schmutter, a paralegal at the firm, was also helpful. 
My former communications director and speechwriter of eight years, Eric Bearse, made numerous edits and suggestions to the manuscript. He has a special gift for putting my most deeply help beliefs into writing. For that I am grateful.
My political consultant, an avid Eagle Scout himself, David Carney, made numerous suggestions for this book and played and invaluable role in keeping the project on target. His ideas were essential.
Robert Hardwicke, a veteran adult Scout leader in California, supplied a useful “grassroots” perspective on current-day Scouting procedures and practices. The research work of Martin Wooster and the many hours of editing by Peter Hannaford are also appreciated.
And finally, with great love and admiration, I would like to acknowledge Gene Overton, my late scoutmaster in Paint Creek, Texas, who inspired and guided me as so many other scout leaders have done for almost a century.

Introduction

You may be wondering, “Why would the governor of the second largest state choose to write his very first book about the Boy Scouts?” Or you may be thinking, “Why should I care what the governor of the second largest state has to say about the Scouts? And who is the governor of the second largest state, anyway?” If your question is the last one, don’t worry; you fit into the same category as the vast majority of Americans. If, however, you asked one of the first two questions, I can assure you this book is for you.
Though these pages contain plenty of my personal thoughts, this book is not about me. To the extent that it is about me is merely a reflection of the fact that I can’t view Scouting from any other perspective than my own. I have fifty years of observations packed inside these pages, but whether you like me more or less after reading them isn’t really what matters. What does matter is whether, after reading this book, you have a more profound appreciation for the impact Scouting has on both young men and women, and what it means to the preservation of a core decency that has defined American society for 200 years. As you will read, I believe that core decency is at risk if our society continues to drift from the virtues of liberty to the vices of license.
I also believe this book demonstrates that the so-called “War on the Scouts” is a microcosm of a larger phenomenon, a “culture war” that has been tearing at the seams of our society for forty years, and that pits traditional values such as service, selflessness. and sacrifice for the common good against a newer doctrine that elevates the self above society and relegates morality to a shapeless form of relativity. The attacks on the Scouts are but one front in a larger war. The forces of moral relativity—the most famous of which is the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU)—would remove any mention of God from the public square, would sanitize our society of bright lines dividing right and wrong, and would elevate doing what “feels good” as a moral imperative higher than doing what is necessary for us to live together.
I am passionate about this subject because Scouting was central to my life as a young boy growing up on the rolling plains of West Texas. And it has remained so. I went to Texas A&M, in part, because I held in awe my Aggie scoutmaster, Gene Overton. He took me as a young boy on my first visit to the campus. I knew from that day onward where I wanted to attend college. As an adult and as an assistant scoutmaster, I passed along Scouting’s great traditions to my son. I have never been prouder than I was the day he earned the Scouting’s highest honor, the Eagle Award. As governor of Texas, I have attended numerous Scouting dinners to raise money for local troops and councils, knowing that Scouting’s impact on those young men had the potential to overcome the very different lessons taught by a deteriorating culture.
Once an unassailable American institution, Scouting began coming under attack in 1976. An oregon girl who had been denied membership in a Cub Scout pack sued the Boy Scouts of America for admission. Most Americans probably didn’t think much of that suit at the time because, like me, most didn’t even know about it. I was flying a C-130 on tactical airlifts to South America, Europe, and the Middle East as a pilot in the United States Air Force. As such, I was relearning through international travel what I had been taught as a young Scout: that America is unique because Americans understand that freedom is not the same as license, and that it comes with social obligations. One such obligation is to defend freedom with one’s life, as I was willing to do and many before me and after me have done. In my case, that calling never took me to the field of battle. I was fortunate. Many other have faced the horror of war in order to further freedom, and many of those citizen-soldiers were prepared at a young age in the Boy Scouts of America.
I left the Air Force in 1977 and returned to the family farm and ranch, renewing friendships with old Scouting comrades. They began to tell me about other lawsuits against the BSA. Up to the 1990s, most had to do with membership (that is, girls wanting to join Boy Scout troops or Cub packs) or employment.
As the years went on, the number of lawsuits seemed to increase and the nature of the suits began to change. Now it was atheists suing the Scouts on the basis of “discrimination,” objecting to the pluralistic faith statement in the Scout Oath: “On my honor I will do my best to do my duty to God.” 
By then the ACLU was knee-deep in the litigious assault on the Scouts, which, on its face, seemed a little odd and ironic since they are an organization dedicated to free speech. Here they were objecting to another organization expressing its views through the personal beliefs of its members.
Along with suits by atheists, some openly homosexual men who had been denied leadership positions in Scout troops sued the Scouts. Like the atheists, they claimed discrimination. 
What was going on? Scouting’s values are drawn from those of the huge middle class of our nation—a body of people generous to those less fortunate and not envious of those who do well because opportunities are open to nearly everyone.
Reading up on the lawsuits filed against the Boy Scouts of America and some of its units, I saw a clear pattern. The ACLU and its allies seemed determined to force the Boy Scouts to bend to their version of what is right and wrong, with the effort climaxing in 2000 with the Dale case.
In that case, an openly homosexual man in New Jersey claimed that the Boy Scouts violated his state’s anti-discrimination law. The state’s supreme court sided with him. The suit went all the way to the United States Supreme Court, which ruled that a state may not prohibit the Boy Scouts from adhering to a moral point of view and expressing it in internal leadership policy. It also held that the New Jersey Supreme Court’s decision violated the Boy Scouts’ First Amendment right to freedom of association.
Most Americans have a live-and-let-live view about homosexuality. After all, many have relatives or acquaintances who are homosexual. Scouting’s leaders have the same tolerant view, but they do not believe that someone whose personal agenda is to make an open issue of his sexual orientation should be a Scout leader. Scouting is not about sex, but about building character.
As for the atheist cases, Scouts, like most Americans, believe in God. Scouting is firmly non-sectarian, but it expects its members to express a belief in the Almighty, and to live according to that faith in their daily lives.
The Dale case seemed to clear the way for the Scouts to go forward with their stated mission, the Scout Law, and the Scout Oath, but the ACLU and its allies had other ideas. They have since changed tactics, stepping up with their assault on the Scouts through a series of threats and suits intended to prevent Scout groups from using public facilities for their meetings. Are these acts revenge for the Dale case ruling? Only they know, but isn’t it odd that the ACLU, which champions First Amendment rights, wants them applied selectively? It seems some of the most intolerant acts occur in the name of tolerance: a paradox that seems to describe much of the ACLU’s political agenda.
As I became involved in public service, and my son ascended through the Scouting ranks, my passion for Scouting and my desire to see this American institution treated fairly led me to study the cases and to talk with Scouting leaders about the larger issues of which the assault on the Boy Scouts was a part.

The Culture War
It's called the culture war today, but when it began in the 1960s and '70s, it didn't have a name. Student campus unrest, rejection of authority, the "self-esteem" movement, moral relativism, and the demands of secularists all gradually fused into a series of attacks on American institutions.
It's not that the public didn't have a right to be "skeptical" about institutions such as government (after all, President Nixon, in the Watergate affairs, damaged public trust in the presidency), but the counterculture movement seemed to move beyond a healthy skepticism to a poisonous form of cynicism. Instead of reforming the institution of government, some advocated simply “tuning out” and turning to the carnage of mind-altering addiction.
Others seems to have a more sinister motive than mere self-indulgence. The objectives of radicals seemed to tear away at the foundations of our society, attacking the role of faith, undermining the role of family, and exploiting freedom to push a divisive agenda of permissiveness. From time to time, the outgrowth of this movement has been captured in the public eye by symbolic attacks on beloved symbols and cherished traditions. Radical file suits to drive religion from the public square and eliminate references to God from the Pledge of Allegiance, currency, and government buildings. They have used lifetime appointments on the judicial bench to advance by decision that which they can’t achieve by legislation. They have created a climate of paranoia in our schools, making teachers and administrators into sensitivity police who feel compelled to scold children for wishing someone a Merry Christmas or bringing a classmate a gift. And, as we shall see in the succeeding chapters, they attacked a century-old American institution, the Boy Scouts of America, to make it fit their narrow view of the world.
In this book you will learn…
WHO is behind the attacks on the Boy Scouts;
WHAT they have done and are doing to force the Scouts to bend to their will;
WHERE they have launched their attacks;
HOW they intend to remake Scouting and how the Boy Scouts are fighting back.
Although the first attacks on the Boy Scouts seemed isolated and uncoordinated thirty years ago, we now see them as part of a larger movement to redefine American values. If viewed in isolation, one might be tempted to see these attacks as a small affair with little relevance to the lives of most Americans. If seen, however, in the wider context of a great debate taking place in our society, with the attacks on Scouting being merely symptomatic of the clash about the relevancy of traditional American values, then one is more likely to join the chorus of the once silent majority who are now beginning to speak out about protecting the role of faith and family in our society, and preventing the corrosive impact of the culture on our children.
Scouts, their parents, and their leaders care about the outcome of these assaults on Scouting. Even if you are not one of these, you should care, too. We are close to a tipping point in American society. If you believe there is right and wrong, that there are acceptable standards of behavior, that ethics cannot be made up on the spot, that judges should base their decisions on interpretations of the law not currently popular opinion, and that this is a nation founded on a belief in God (George Washington called it “Divine Providence”), then you have a stake in this war.
If the attackers win many more victories—either through intimidation, threatened lawsuits, or rulings from kindred judges—the culture war may be lost before we know it. If that happens, we will find ourselves living in a world where moral relativism reigns and individualism runs amok. Now is the time to enlist in this effort, to stand up and be counted.
My perspective is that of an Eagle Scout who worked years to obtain Scouting’s highest recognition and who encouraged his son to pursue the same path. I will tell you how Scouting shaped my life and prepared me for young adult challenges, such as serving in the Corps of Cadets at Texas A&M University, flying C-130 tactical airlift in the United States Air Force, and undertaking a career in elected public service, beginning in 1985.
For this book, I have intereviewed a number of former Scouts—including some prominent Eagle Scouts—to probe the impact of Scouting on their lives. I’ve also related the stories of several boys whose Scouting experience made major positive changes in their lives.
I have reviewed what the opponents of Scouting have been saying, too. Despite their assumption that the Boy Scout movement is static, it is not. It is dynamic, and in these pages I will show you both Scouting’s history and the changes it has made over time to remain relevant to each new generation of young people.
In these chapters I have examined in detail the issues that have led to the attacks on Scouting and the forces in American society that have organized and carried out those attacks. I have discussed the tactics of those seeking to drive God from the public square and the irony that those who attack the Scouts in the name of religious freedom will, if successful, actually suppress freedom of religion. The book also explains the Scouts’ refusal to bend to the winds of “political correctness” by allowing activist homosexual scoutmasters.
The ramifications of the legal challenges to Scouting are examined, including how the Boy Scouts of America (BSA) has responded and—essentially—prevailed. Examining recent polling data, I have compared Scouting’s program and values with broader trends in values in American society. As you will see, Scouting’s values fit closely with those of society as a whole.
What of the future? In the final chapter, I discuss the choice facing Scouting and American society as a whole—a choice between retaining a set of values encapsulated by a dedication to service to others (and the institutions that carry those values and service forward) on the one hand, and the forces of nihilism and self-centeredness on the other.
When you have completed reading On My Honor, I hope you will agree with me that the American values of the Boy Scouts are definitely worth keeping and fighting for.

Chapter 1

The Road from Paint Creek

In some respects, Paint Creek is more an idea than a place; a reaffirmation that there is more to life than the rush of people going to and from work, living their stress-filled lives on their small slices of developed land, hoping that their 1.9 children will one day be prosperous enough to enjoy what they themselves never will. Even a casual listening of the Dave Matthews Band or The Police must nod his/her head in ascent at the notion that we are all like “ants marching” or “packed like lemmings into shiny metal boxes, contestants in a suicidal race.” Life should be simpler, slower. We should have more meals with our family, with the television turned off and conversation turned on. We should be freed from work when we leave the office, not tethered to it with a Blackberry, a cell phone, and the voice of the boss ringing through our heads. We should be what we were meant to be, and we long for a place to bring us back to such a simpler time.
To some, Paint Creek is a throw-back in time—a fading memory of the way things used to be, when you knew everyone within a 15-mile radius of you, and when you saw each other at work or school and then later at church. Paint Creek reminds me of a sense of community that seems lost today. Back then, if you lost a family member or the rains flooded your property, everyone would be at your door. For me, Paint Creek was not merely an idea; it was the center of civilization, and everything else was an alternative universe.
Our spot of farmland was perched along the rolling plains of West Texas. Dad called our area the Big Empty. I called it paradise. I had thousands of acres to explore, a dog I called my own, and a Shetland pony. We had every amenity a boy could need: electricity because the Rural Electrification Agency, REA, had made its way out our road; a 14-foot-deep water well in lieu of running water (the distinct taste and sight of which, cloudy with mineral, I can still conjure up today); a 1920s bungalow-style house with six rooms (including the bathroom); a radio to listen to weather reports; a Number Two washtub for taking a bath; and a fresh garden by the side of the house, fresh milk from the cow in the pasture, and free-range eggs from the chicken coop. If we were deprived of anything, no one told me. Life was good.
Paint Creek had a school—in fact, you might say the school was Paint Creek, because our community’s life revolved around it. Some of the teachers and administrators even lived on school property. It was the result of consolidation in the 1930s of several one-room schools. I was one of 110 kids in grades 1 through 12 (there was no kindergarten then). I was fortunate to graduate in the top ten of my class… of thirteen students.
A small school in a small community meant there were no secrets. If I misbehaved in class, mom would find out about it before I got home (and so would everyone else within 10 miles). Like a lot of kids in that day, I knew I would not only have to explain my actions to mom, but to dad when he came back from the field that night. Dad believed in the pain principle. The leather belt was usually the delivery method of choice.
There are no boundaries to Paint Creek because it’s not a city. The school district was the closest thing to a local unit of government. We were under the jurisdiction of the country government. We measured distances in large gulps. Our nearest neighbor was several hundred yard away. The next closest was miles away. City life was a full 16 miles away—Haskell, the county seat. And the booming metropolis of Abilene was a full hour south. My dad was a county commissioner for 28 years. His district had 328 voters, spread out over 225 square miles. Everyone knew one another. If your road hadn’t been graveled on schedule by the county road crew, you’d catch my dad at church or that week’s six-man football game to bend his ear about it.
Like a lot of small West Texas communities then and now, change was measured in stores or churches closing, not opening. Even to this day, with the rest of Texas growing at almost unsustainable rates, my home county of Haskell is one of the few areas of the state that continues to lose population. The store that sold ice cream and Coca-Cola—across the street from the school—closed while I was a boy. We had a Baptist church and a Methodist church and we were involved in both. Over time, though, Paint Creek couldn’t sustain two churches, and now only has one.
Life revolved around school, church, and—for most boys—the Boy Scouts. We were too far out in the country for most other activities. I tried to play baseball one summer, but it was too much of a chore to get me to all the practices and games. I did play school sports, such as basketball and football. Of course, football in a community that size involved six boys per side, with many playing on both sides of the ball. Some old film reminded me recently just how far football offenses have progressed since that time. We ran just about the same play every time, which usually meant me throwing my body at a defender so the fastest guy on the team could get loose in their backfield.
Through the years, the greatest extracurricular constant for most of us boys was Scouting. That wasn’t the case in every small community in Texas. In some farming areas 4H and Future Farmers of America were the activities around which young people focused their energy. In cities it may have been Boys’ and Girls’ Clubs. In Paint Creek it was the Boy Scouts.
Like most kids, when I became a teenager, I was unaware that my adult personality was forming itself around the principles, characteristics, and morals instilled by my parents and other adults I admired, such as my scoutmaster. It wasn’t just about learning the right manners—make your bed, brush your teeth, clean your room, and do your chores—it was about the larger life lessons: treat everyone with respect, follow the Golden Rule (do unto others as you would have them do unto you), help others who are less fortunate, set goals and work hard to achieve them, take responsibility for your actions, and tolerate differences in others even if you disagree with them. There was a special one in my family: public service is an honorable calling, even a duty.
That idea had run in the family for a century, beginning with my great-great-grandfather, D. H. Hamilton. After experiencing defeat at the hands of Union General Joshua Chamberlain in the Civil War battle at Gettysburg, he returned home to his native East Texas. Hardened from his role as a soldier in the First Texas Infantry, he was no longer the young man his mother had watched march off to war.
He made a life in East Texas, even representing his territory in the Texas House for two years in the 1890s, before family economics drove him westward. He settled around Paint Creek .The local Indians gave it that name for the red color of its clay banks. Paint Creek has been the home of the Perry family since great-great-grandfather Hamilton struck out for a better way of life (though right now it is only my mom and dad living out in Haskell County after our move to Austin in 1991, which was required by state law when I was elected to statewide office).
One of the reasons I looked forward to Saturday, beyond the fact that it provided a reprieve from school, was because I would join my buddies for a Scouting adventure was often lasted all day. On any given Saturday, our parents (or one of our buddies with a “hardship” license for driving farm vehicles) would drive us to our 9 a.m. troop meeting. Once every three months we would even venture off for the weekend, often to Camp Tonkawa just outside Buffalo Gap State Park. The Scouts leased the camp from the state park system in exchange for maintaining it. It was heaven.
Camping out, exploring nature, finding wildlife, learning new skills, hearing old war stories: it beat chores at home or, for that matter, hanging out with my older sister, Milla, and her friends.
There, Troop 48 scoutmaster Gene Overton would lead us. He was a 1931 graduate of Texas A&M College, and like most Aggies of that generation, a veteran of World War II. He turned me on to Texas A&M at a young age. Even though no prior generation of my immediate family had gone to college, for me it was a no-brainer because of how Gene Overton talked about his days in College Station.
I also grew up in a home with a World War II veteran: My dad went off to war when he was eighteen, serving as a tailgunner on a B-17 bomber that flew dozens of missions over Europe. When he returned home, he wasn’t thinking about college, but simply settling down and working the farm in his quiet corner of the world, just glad to see the world at peace. Though Paint Creek remained the center of my life, by the age of eighteen I had developed a sense that there was more to life than what it offered. By going to Texas A&M, I knew I could not only fulfill the yearning for something new, but, as an Aggie cadet, I could follow in the military footsteps of my father and Mr. Overton.
The importance of service was a continual theme with Mr. Overton. All the stories he told about A&M, or the Third Army in World War II, had to do with people who had, or one day would, lay their lives on the line. Even today every Aggie Cadet is reminded that during World War II Texas A&M sent more officers into battle than all the military academies combined. Military service is part of the Aggie DNA.
But we boys of Troop 48 didn’t just hear about service from Mr. Overton; he modeled it. He was the superintendent of our Sunday school and president of the school board. No man did I respect more as a young kid, with the exception of my father. Mr. Overton could have descended from Mount Sinai. What he said was the law.
We had a Camporees a number of times a year at various places. Mr. Overton often arranged for them to be held on ranches owned by his Texas A&M friends. About the time I finished the requirements for Eagle Scout, and I had just reached my fourteenth birthday, we went to the National Jamboree at Valley Forge, Pennsylvania. I recall President Lyndon Johnson landing there in a helicopter, as well as Lady Baden-Powell (the widow of Scouting’s founder) from England. For a fourteen-year-old I had what seemed the adventure of a lifetime with my Scouting travels: the 1964 World’s Fair in New York City, the Liberty Bell in Philadelphia, meeting government leaders in Washington, D.C., and camping at Valley Force.
Until then, I’d never been outside of Texas except for a summer vacation in a log cabin at Estes Park, Colorado. It was such a seminal event in my life that I still have the diary I kept on the trip as the troop scribe, with entries about the historic sites of Washington, a wound I acquired on the trip, and how attractive the stewardesses were on my maiden commercial flight. In 1964 I not only attended the National Jamboree, but I was also elected to the Order of the Arrow. It’s not a secret society, but rather the Brotherhood of Honor campers, selected by the Scouts themselves to go to the next level of learning and service.
Growing up in Paint Creek, I thought the things we were taught as Scouts—to do our best to be trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean, and reverent—were pretty much what the Founding Fathers had intended for succeeding generations when they created our nation.
When I got to Texas A&M I was not confronted by the student unrest that was gripping campuses in the late 1960s; A&M remained a conservative place dedicated to training military officers. Still, my friends and I certainly heard a lot about turmoil. Opposition to authority of any kind was taking hold on many campuses. Those who spoke against the counterculture activists were shouted off many a campus stage. This didn’t square with what I’d learned in Scouting. What had happened to decency and tolerance? What happened to civil disagreement and social responsibility? The clamor for drugs and disdain for the institutions that had guided our nation successfully for nearly 200 years seemed to be sweeping the country. Some seemed to want to knock the world as we knew it off its hinges, without replacing it with anything of value. 
When I graduated, our nation was still embroiled in Vietnam. I received my commission in the Air Force, earned my pilot’s wings, and jumped into the co-pilot seat of a C-130. Not fancy flying, like the jet fighters, but nonetheless significant for moving soldiers and munitions to critical theaters of operation.
Coming from a small community like Paint Creek, and a somewhat insular culture at Texas A&M, I found being thrust into the role of international traveler courtesy of Uncle Sam to be an eye-opening experience. I saw the beaches of Rio De Janiero, the old cities of Europe that existed long before Columbus ever set sail for the Americas, and the sands of the Persian Gulf, occupied by Bedouins who seemed stuck in a previous century. One time, driving in a military vehicle on a desert stretch of road in the Arabian Peninsula, I saw a pickup truck heading toward us and thought for a second I was in Paint Creek with the family dog poking his head around the corner of the cab to catch some fresh air. When we got a little closer, I noticed it was a camel in the bed of the pickup, his tongue flapping in the wind and his legs folded. I knew then I was a long way from home.
The fun that ensued from our travels was balanced by a growing sensation of homesickness. I learned that, despite the upheaval on the home front and the economic turmoil experienced in the ‘70s, America remained unique in the world, a place where a sense of opportunity pervaded, even for kids raised on tenant farms and children born in one-room shacks. The sense of class division that so permeates foreign societies—including those of affluent, freedom-loving allies such Britain—is not a barrier in American society. Sure, there are exclusive clubs and moneyed schools whose supporters take care of their own. The middle-class kid, however, is not shut off from pursuing a dream or a profit. In places such as Saudi Arabia, if you weren’t born into the right family, your fate was already more or less decided. I have found that when people can’t dream, hopelessness gives way to despair, and despair can express itself in extremism and violence.
After four and a half years in the Air Force, I yearned for new opportunities at home. In 1977 I left the service as a captain to return to Texas to help my mom and dad on the farm. That was a difficult year to say the least—returning as a grown man to the place I had only known as a boy. Dad still thought I was there to do chores. I reminded him that I had just finished commanding a multimillion-dollar piece of government equipment and a number of grown men. He reminded me that the chores still needed tending to. You could say there was a transitional period where dad and I didn’t always see eye to eye. Because of that, and because we went through one of our famous droughts, I began interviewing for a job as a commercial pilot. Yet, as if God was talking to me directly, he opened the heavens with a storm that deluged the rolling plains of the Big Empty. I got the apparent message: I would stick with farming for a spell longer.
Dad and I subsequently worked together for a number of years, and steadily became partners and best friends instead of just father and son. During the same time period I also wore down my high school sweetheart, Anita Thigpen, and convinced her to be my wife, for better or for worse. Thus, the wander twenty-seven-year-old who came home from the Air Force felt a little settled—for a while. Because besides working the land, what the Perrys do is run for elected office.
After settling in Haskell County, my great-great-grandfather was elected county judge from 1900-1904. My great-grandfather was elected a county commissioner. After him, my grandfather, Hoyt Perry, ran for county commissioner in the 1940s, but was defeated. My father, Ray, lost the first time he ran for county commissioner in 1964, but he was elected in 1968 and served for seven consecutive terms until retiring in 1996.
The urge to get involved in public service was strong for me. It wasn’t as if I aspired to be governor from the age of seven, but I knew growing up—because of my family tradition and because of the value I learned in Scouting—that giving back in the form of public service was an important principle.
Just as the weather had kept me from leaving the family vocation, it almost prevented me from seizing and opportunity to pursue the other family tradition of public service. This time, in late December, an ice storm shut down our part of the country. The power went out. News slowed to a crawl. The roads were icy—a phenomenon made worse by the fact that Texans were the ones driving on them.
After going stir-crazy for a few days, I finally got up the courage to go into town. I saw an old friend at a café who asked me if I was running for Representative Hanna’s seat. I told him there was no way in hell I would take on the incumbent in the primary. He said Mr. Hanna had announced in Austin a few weeks ago that he was retiring. My heart felt as if it had stopped. I had no indication this opportunity would become available, and I had no idea how to proceed. A decision had to be made quickly, for the filing deadline was days away.
Anita and I hadn’t been married even two years, and I was getting ready to propose I spend a lot of time away from her and our newborn son Griffin. We didn’t have the luxury of a drawn-out discussion over weeks and months. It was time to either jump in impulsively, or pass. One factor: I was getting restless with life on the farm. Anita saw how much I wanted to do this. After all, she knew what the Perrys did: they ran for office.
